A struct that defines all the ORM settings, the following keys are supported:

- autogenmap(default:true; autogenmap=false is not supported yet): Specifies whether Lucee should automatically generate mapping for the persistent CFCs. If autogenmap=false, mapping should be provided in the form of "{cfc-name}.cfc.hbm.xml" files.
- automanageSession(default:true; not supported yet): Lets you specify if Lucee must manage Hibernate session automatically. If enabled: Lucee manages the session completely. That is, it decides when to flush the session, when to clear the session, and when to close the session. If disabled: The application is responsible for managing flushing, clearing, or closing of the session. The only exception is (in the case of transaction), when the transaction commits, the application flushes the session. Lucee closes the ORM session at the end of request irrespective of this flag being enabled or disabled.
- cacheconfig: Specifies the location of the configuration file that should be used by the secondary cache provider.This setting is used only when secondarycacheenabled=true.
- cacheprovider: Specifies the cache provider that should be used by ORM as secondary cache.
- catalog: Specifies the default Catalog that should be used by ORM.
- cfclocation: Specifies the directory (or array of directories) that should be used by Lucee to search for persistent CFCs to generate the mapping. If cfclocation is set, Lucee looks at only the paths specified in it. If it is not set, Lucee looks at the application directory, its sub-directories, and its mapped directories to search for persistent CFCs.
- datasource: Specifies the data source that should be used by ORM. If it is not specified here, then the data source specified for the application is picked up.
- dbcreate(default:none): Hibernate can automatically create the tables for your application in the database. dbCreate takes the following values:
-- update: Setting this value creates the table if it does not exist or update the table if it exists.
-- dropcreate: Setting this value drops the table if it exists and then creates it.
-- none: Setting this value does not change anything in the database schema.
- dialect: Specifies the dialect.Lucee supports the following dialects: [Cache 2007.1, Cache71, Cache 2007.1, DB2, DB2/390, DB2/400, DB2390, DB2400, DB2AS400, DB2OS390, DataDirectOracle9, Derby, Firebird, FrontBase, H2, H2DB, HSQL, HSQLDB, Informix, Ingres, Interbase, JDataStore, MSSQL, Mckoi, MckoiSQL, MicrosoftSQLServer, Mimer, MimerSQL, MySQL, MySQL/InnoDB, MySQL/MyISAM, MySQL5, MySQL5/InnoDB, MySQL5InnoDB, MySQLInnoDB, MySQLMyISAM, MySQLwithInnoDB, MySQLwithMyISAM, Oracle, Oracle10g, Oracle8i, Oracle9, Oracle9i, Pointbase, PostgreSQL, PostgresPlus, Progress, SAPDB, SQLServer, Sybase, Sybase11, SybaseASE15, SybaseAnywhere, com.ddtek.jdbc.db2.DB2Driver, com.microsoft.jdbc.sqlserver.SQLServerDriver, oracle.jdbc.driver.OracleDriver, org.firebirdsql.jdbc.FBDriver, org.gjt.mm.mysql.Driver, org.h2.Driver, org.hsqldb.jdbcDriver, org.postgresql.Driver]
- eventHandling(default:false): Specifies whether ORM Event callbacks should be given.
- flushatrequestend(default:true): Specifies whether ormflush should be called automatically at request end. If flushatrequestend is false, ormflush is not called automatically at request end.
- logSQL(default:false): Specifies whether the SQL queries that are executed by ORM will be logged. If LogSQL=true, the SQL queries are logged to the console.
- ormconfig: The Hibernate configuration file. This file contains various configuration parameters like, dialect, cache settings, and mapping files that are required for the application. For more details, see <http://www.hibernate.org/hib_docs/reference/en/html/session-configuration.html>. The settings defined in the ormsettings override the settings defined in the Hibernate Configuration XML file.The connection information in the Hibernate Configuration XML file is however ignored because Lucee uses its own connection pool. You will need to use this only when you need to use a hibernate setting that is not available using ormsetting.
- savemapping(default:false): Specifies whether the generated Hibernate mapping file has to be saved to disc. If you set the value to true, the Hibernate mapping XML file is saved with the filename "CFC name".hbm.xml in the same directory as the CFC. If any value of savemapping is specified in CFC, it will override the value specified in the ormsetting.
- schema: Specifies the default Schema that should be used by ORM.
- secondarycacheenabled(default:false): Specifies whether secondary caching should be enabled
- skipCFCWithError(default:false;not implemented yet): Lets you specify if Lucee must skip the CFCs that have errors. If set to true, Lucee ignores the CFCs that have errors.
- sqlscript: Path to the SQL script file that gets executed after ORM is initialized. This applies if dbcreate is set to dropcreate. This must be the absolute file path or the path relative to the application.The SQL script file lets you populate the tables before the application is accessed.
- useDBForMapping(default:true): Specifies whether the database has to be inspected to identify the missing information required to generate the Hibernate mapping. The database is inspected to get the column data type, primary key and foreign key information.
